---
title: "Towards more energy efficient routing protocols for wireless sensor networks"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/2021-12-27-talk
excerpt: "This presentation at the Machine Intelligence and Data Science Applications conference highlighted the development of PRRP, an energy-efficient routing protocol for wireless sensor networks, showcasing significant improvements in network performance and energy efficiency."
venue: "Machine Intelligence and Data Science Applications"
date: 2021-12-27
location: "Cumilla, Bangladesh"
---
> Original Presentation can be found [here](/files/177_presentation.pptx.pdf){:target="_blank"}

Efforts towards developing more energy-efficient routing protocols for wireless sensor networks have gained considerable attention in recent years. As wireless sensor networks are typically deployed in resource-constrained environments, energy conservation plays a vital role in prolonging network lifetime. Researchers have been actively working on designing routing protocols that minimize energy consumption by optimizing communication patterns among sensor nodes. These protocols often utilize techniques such as data aggregation, node clustering, and route optimization to reduce the energy expenditure during data transmission and routing decisions. By improving energy efficiency, these protocols contribute to the overall sustainability and longevity of wireless sensor networks, enabling them to operate for extended periods without requiring frequent battery replacements or recharging. Moreover, energy-efficient routing protocols are crucial for applications such as environmental monitoring, industrial automation, and smart cities, where large-scale deployments of wireless sensor networks are involved, demanding efficient utilization of limited energy resources.

The current study employs a cross-layer design approach toward the development of an energy-efficient routing protocol to address this concern. The proposed is titled the PRRP (Position Responsive Routing Protocol) system. The design of the proposed methodology is such that it serves to minimize the energy that is consumed in the respective distance nodes relative to the given networks. The study also involves a critical evaluation of how the proposed PRRP protocol behaves and performs in relation to the parameters of the network’s energy consumption, throughput, and network lifetime, focusing on the individual basis for the respective data packets.

From the results, the research has established that, upon being analyzed and also benchmarked relative to well-known models such as CELRP and LEACH protocols, PRRP comes with significant improvements in the WSN systems concerning energy efficiency. As such, PRRP is confirmed to steer marked improvements in WSNs’ overall performance.
