---
title: "Unsusual Tech Careers"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2021-11-15-talk
excerpt: "Embarking on an unusual tech career, founding my own AI/ML lab led to captivating research, inspiring collaborations, and an unforgettable opportunity to share my journey with like-minded individuals."
venue: "Maharaja Agrasen Institute of Technology"
date: 2021-11-15
location: "New Delhi, India"
---

In the vast realm of technology, unconventional paths often lead to extraordinary destinations. As I embarked on my journey, little did I know that founding my own sole proprietorship lab would pave the way for a remarkable exploration of AI/ML projects. My team, consisting of talented peers and juniors, joined forces to create research-based AI/ML solutions that pushed the boundaries of innovation.

Together, we worked relentlessly on developing minimum viable products (MVPs) that showcased the potential of our research endeavours. These projects, fueled by curiosity and a hunger for knowledge, captured the attention of researchers from around the country and beyond. The support we received in the form of sponsorships from prominent figures in the field further fueled our ambition.

One of the most memorable moments on this incredible journey was when I was invited by the entrepreneurship cell of my university to give a talk on unusual tech careers. It was an opportunity to share my experiences, ideas, and insights with an eager audience. The sheer joy of interacting with like-minded individuals who were equally passionate about technology was truly exhilarating. The energy in the room was palpable as we exchanged ideas and explored the possibilities of collaboration.

During the talk, I had the privilege of meeting numerous talented individuals who expressed their interest in working with me. Their skills and enthusiasm left me both humbled and inspired. It was a testament to the power of connections and the immense potential that lies within the tech community.

In closing, I would like to express my deepest gratitude to my undergraduate advisor, Dr. Neelam Sharma. Her unwavering support and belief in my abilities provided the foundation for this incredible journey. It is through her guidance and mentorship that I discovered the courage to venture into uncharted territories and embrace the limitless possibilities of an unusual tech career. I would also like to thank the Head of the Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Department, Dr. Neeraj Garg and the entire team at the entrepreneurship development cell at MAIT for giving me the opportunity to share my experiences with my peers.

As I reflect on this transformative experience, I am filled with gratitude for the opportunities that have come my way. The world of AI/ML research has not only nurtured my passion but also connected me with a community of remarkable individuals. 

> To learn more about the work we did at Meraki Lab (my sole proprietorship company) visit the lab's website [here](https://merakilab.co.in/){:target="_blank"}
